1. What is the definition of Hive? What is the present version of Hive?
Ans.  Hive is a distributed DWH system built on Apache hadoop using HDFS to store data of different format like csv/json/parquet.
      present version of Hive is :- 4.0.0 - alpha2 compatible with Hadoop 3.3.1

2. Is Hive suitable to be used for OLTP systems? Why?
Ans. No. as Hive is DWH used for analysis purpose over very huge data collected from multiple sources. 
it is a distributed storage solution holding de-normalised data.

3. How is HIVE different from RDBMS? Does hive support ACID
transactions. If not then give the proper reason.
Ans.  Here are the differeneces :- 
a.) hive holds de-normalized data where as RDBMS follows Normal Forms to bring normalization into data forming relationships through keys. 
b.) hive is a distributed system while RDMS doesn't support distribution. 
c.) hive hold very huge data in size where as DB can't 
d.) hive supports easy read operations where as DB supports easy write operations. 

Hive support ACID for ORC format tables. few use cases for ACID in Hive is :-
 a.) Streaming Injest of data
 b.) Slow Changing Dimensions
 c.) Data Restatement
 d.) Bulk Updates Using SQL merge statement
 

4. Explain the hive architecture and the different components of a Hive architecture?
Ans.  Hive has 5 Components. They are 
        a. Hadoop :- over hadoop , Hive is created as it uses map/reduce operation over name node and data node in HDFS.
        b. Execution Engine :- The component which connectes to HDFS to execute any query projected by user. 
        c. MetaStore :- it stores all the structured information about tables and it's partition information 
                        of attributes and attribute level information. 
        d. Compiler :- it understands the query and creates an execution plan bases of the information stored in MetaStore for 
                        the requested table. it sends the plan to execution engine for further processing.
        e. driver :- Queries initiated by user is received by driver in Hive. It handles user session. it returns the result
                      to the user through UI.


5. Mention what Hive query processor does? And Mention what are the components of a Hive query processor?
Ans.  Hive query processor convert graph of mapreduce jobs with the execution time framework. so that the jobs
can be executed in the order of dependencies.

Components of a Hive Query Processor :-
a. Logical Plan Generation
b. Physical Plan Generation
c. Executin Enginer
d. Operators
e. UDFs and UDAFs
f. optimizer
g. Parser
h. Semantic Analyzer
i. Type Checking

6. What are the three different modes in which we can operate Hive?
Ans. the 3 modes in which Hive Operates :-
      . local Mode
      . Pseudo-Distributed
      . Full Distributed Mode
      
7. Features and Limitations of Hive.
Ans. Features :-
       a. Supported Computing Engine :- Hive Supports MapReduce, Tez and Spark Computing Engine.
       b. Framework :- Hive is a stable batch processing framework built on the top of HDFS and can work as a data WH.
       c. Easy to code :- Hive uses Hive Query Language to query structure data which is easy to code. 
       d. Declarative :- HQL is a declarative language like SQL mean it is non-procedural
       e. Structure of the table :- the table , the structure is same as SQL - RDBMS. It also supports partitioning and bucketing
       f. Supported DataStructures :- Partition,Bucket,table are 3 data structures that hive supports
       g. Supports ETL :- Hive supports ETL.
       h. Storage:- Hive supports users to access files from HDFS , Apache HBase, Amazon S3.
       i. Capable :- Hive is capable to process very large datasets of petabytes in size.
       j. Helps in processing unstructured data :- one can easily embed custom mapreduce code with Hive to process unstructured data.
       i. Drivers :- JDBS/ODBC drivers are also available in Hive. 
       j. Fault Tolerance :- Since we store Hive Data on HDFS for fault tolerance is provided by Hadoop
       k. Area of Uses :- Can be used in Data Mining, predictive modeling and document indexing.
       
   Limitations :- 
       a. Does not support OLTP :- Hive does not support OLTP but only OLAP.
       b. Doesn't support Subqueries 
       c. Latency :- latency in Hive is very high
       d. Only Non-real / cold data is supported :- hive is not for real time processing as it takes time to give query results.

8. How to create a Database in HIVE?
Ans. we can create a database with the help of create command:-
            CREATE DATABASE MY_DB;
            
            SHOW DATABASES;
            
9. How to create a table in HIVE?
Ans.  Example of creating a Hive Table:- 

      CREATE TABLE [IF not Exits] employees (
            id INT,
            emp_name STRING,
            sal FLOAT,
            deptno INT,
            manager_id INT,
            YearofExp INT)
            ROW FORMAT DELIMITED
            FIELDS TERMINATED BY ',';
            

10.What do you mean by describe and describe extended and describe 
formatted with respect to database and table
Ans. Describe displays the list of columns for the given DB/table. 
      Extended/Formatted is Optional.
      If extended is specified , it will display all the metadata for the specified table/DB.
      If formatted is specified, it will display the metadata in a tabular format.
      
11.How to skip header rows from a table in Hive?
Ans. Here is the example :-
      CREATE external TABLE if not exists exmp(
      exmp_name STRING,
      exmp_id INT,
       idf int,
      date date,
      count int)
      ROW FORMAT DELIMITED
      FIELDS TERMINATED BY ','
      LOCATION "PATH/TO/FILE.csv"
      TBLPROPERTIES("skip.header.line.count"="2");
      
12.What is a hive operator? What are the different types of hive operators?
Ans. Hive provides various builtin operators for the data operations to be implemented on the tables present inside Apache Hive Warehouse. 
      Hive Operators are used for the mathematical operations on operands. it returns specific value as per the logic applied. 
      
      Different types of Hive Operators :- 
      a. Relational Operators :- ==,!=,<,>,<=,>=,IS NULL, IS NOT NULL, LIKE , REGEXP
      b. Arthematic Operators :- +,-,*,/,%,&,|,^.~
      c. logical Operators :- AND, OR, NOT,!
      d. String Operators :- A||B (Concatenation)
      e. Operator for Complex Types :- A[n] - Array, M[key,value] - return the values corresponding to the key (Key-value), a.b - returns b field of a structure.
  
13.Explain about the Hive Built-In Functions
Ans. hive have following builtin Functions :-
      a. round()
      b. floor()
      c. ceil()
      d. rand(),rand(int)
      e. concat()
      f. substr()
      g. upper()
      h. ucase()
      j. lower()
      k. lcase()
      l. trim()
      m. ltrim()
      n. rtrim()
      o. regexp_replace()
      p. size()
      q. cast()
      r. form_unixtime()
      s. to_data()
      t. year()
      u. month()
      v. day()
      w. get_json_object()
      
      Aggregate Functions :-
            a. count()
            b. sum()
            c. avg()
            d. min()
            e. max()
14. Write hive DDL and DML commands.
Ans.  DDL Commands :- 
            1. create :- used with db/table
            2. show :- db/table/table properties/partitions/function index.
            3. describe :- db/table/view
            4. use :-  DB
            5. drop :- DB/table
            6. alter :- DB/Table
            7. truncate :- table
      DML Commands :-
            1. LOAD 
            2. SELECT 
            3. INSERT
            4. DELETE
            5. UPDATE
            6. Export
            7. Import
      
15.Explain about SORT BY, ORDER BY, DISTRIBUTE BY and CLUSTER BY in Hive.
Ans. sort by and order by are same but 
      here are few difference :- 
      a. sort by may use multiple reducers for the final output  and it only guarantees ordering of rows with in a reducer. 
      b. order by :- uses single reducer to guarantee total order in the output and limit can be used to minimize the sort time
      
      DISTRIBUTE BY / CLUSTER BY :- is used to distribute the data into multiple reducers based on the key columns. 
      
      Cluster by is a short-cut for both distribute by and Sort By.
      
16.Difference between "Internal Table" and "External Table" and Mention when to choose “Internal Table” and “External Table” in Hive?
17.Where does the data of a Hive table get stored?
18.Is it possible to change the default location of a managed table?
19.What is a metastore in Hive? What is the default database provided by Apache Hive for metastore?
20.Why does Hive not store metadata information in HDFS?
21.What is a partition in Hive? And Why do we perform partitioning inHive?

22.What is the difference between dynamic partitioning and static partitioning?
23.How do you check if a particular partition exists?
24.How can you stop a partition form being queried?
25.Why do we need buckets? How Hive distributes the rows into buckets?
26.In Hive, how can you enable buckets?
27.How does bucketing help in the faster execution of queries?
28.How to optimise Hive Performance? Explain in very detail.
29. What is the use of Hcatalog?
30. Explain about the different types of join in Hive.
31.Is it possible to create a Cartesian join between 2 tables, using Hive?
32.Explain the SMB Join in Hive?
33.What is the difference between order by and sort by which one we should
use?
34.What is the usefulness of the DISTRIBUTED BY clause in Hive?
35.How does data transfer happen from HDFS to Hive?
36.Wherever (Different Directory) I run the hive query, it creates a new
metastore_db, please explain the reason for it?
37.What will happen in case you have not issued the command: ‘SET
hive.enforce.bucketing=true;’ before bucketing a table in Hive?
38.Can a table be renamed in Hive?
39.Write a query to insert a new column(new_col INT) into a hive table at a
position before an existing column (x_col)
40.What is serde operation in HIVE?
41.Explain how Hive Deserializes and serialises the data?
42.Write the name of the built-in serde in hive.
43.What is the need of custom Serde?
44.Can you write the name of a complex data type(collection data types) in
Hive?
45.Can hive queries be executed from script files? How?
46.What are the default record and field delimiter used for hive text files?
47.How do you list all databases in Hive whose name starts with s?
48.What is the difference between LIKE and RLIKE operators in Hive?

49.How to change the column data type in Hive?
50.How will you convert the string ’51.2’ to a float value in the particular
column?
51.What will be the result when you cast ‘abc’ (string) as INT?
52.What does the following query do?
a. INSERT OVERWRITE TABLE employees
b. PARTITION (country, state)
c. SELECT ..., se.cnty, se.st
d. FROM staged_employees se;
53.Write a query where you can overwrite data in a new table from the
existing table.
54.What is the maximum size of a string data type supported by Hive?
Explain how Hive supports binary formats.
55. What File Formats and Applications Does Hive Support?
56.How do ORC format tables help Hive to enhance its performance?
57.How can Hive avoid mapreduce while processing the query?
58.What is view and indexing in hive?
59.Can the name of a view be the same as the name of a hive table?
60.What types of costs are associated in creating indexes on hive tables?
61.Give the command to see the indexes on a table.
62. Explain the process to access subdirectories recursively in Hive queries.
63.If you run a select * query in Hive, why doesn't it run MapReduce?
64.What are the uses of Hive Explode?
65. What is the available mechanism for connecting applications when we
run Hive as a server?
66.Can the default location of a managed table be changed in Hive?
67.What is the Hive ObjectInspector function?
68.What is UDF in Hive?
69.Write a query to extract data from hdfs to hive.
70.What is TextInputFormat and SequenceFileInputFormat in hive.
71.How can you prevent a large job from running for a long time in a hive?
72.When do we use explode in Hive?
73.Can Hive process any type of data formats? Why? Explain in very detail

74.Whenever we run a Hive query, a new metastore_db is created. Why?
75.Can we change the data type of a column in a hive table? Write a
complete query.
76.While loading data into a hive table using the LOAD DATA clause, how
do you specify it is a hdfs file and not a local file ?
77.What is the precedence order in Hive configuration?
78.Which interface is used for accessing the Hive metastore?
79.Is it possible to compress json in the Hive external table ?
80.What is the difference between local and remote metastores?
81.What is the purpose of archiving tables in Hive?
82.What is DBPROPERTY in Hive?
83.Differentiate between local mode and MapReduce mode in Hive.
